hello it is Monday December 16th I don't
normally say at the time which is a good
thing because time time changes for
everybody and this is the project
operations weekly sync and we're gonna
run through the stuff in our our updates
and our agenda is pretty light and if we
underly we underly it's not good cool um
so I I'm first update on 2020 planning
we made a ton of great progress this
weekend we still have a lot of follow-up
conversations with you know folks
everywhere synthesizing all of the lead
feedback from across the working groups
from people who are are owning various
areas but I think we're making really
good progress there's definitely going
to be an email out to everyone and then
we'll also be talking about it in all
hands on Thursday and so well we'll have
good communication out to everyone
around at least the main focus area for
three to six months um bye bye end a
week so not quite hitting that okay are
that okay I had a date around it which
was I think November 16th which we
definitely didn't hit but it's December
16th and and her we're getting pretty
good definition on at least a thing to
really focus and drive ourselves around
which will allow us to unblock ourselves
as well and and hopefully be more
aligned and execute faster so that feels
that feels really good and I think
everyone's gonna yeah I think that'll be
that'll be a good unifying moment and
then the next step is actually also
synthesizing decision-making criteria
and feedback to make sure that everyone
in the whole idea us community is like
really aware of kind of how how
structuring that decision synthesizing
feedback from a ton of sources and
putting that rhetoric together to unify
our our plan forward um you know set
into it so that's kind of where we're at
and any questions on that
does that kind of resonate
cool right free to send me using
questions or in sending out feedback do
you tell me if if our like our logical
structured thinking doesn't make sense
or if we have a gap in our thoughts
that's all right with 20/20 planning
collaborations there's some async notes
in here arkady do you want to so yes so
I can take in Fuhrer and grants so we
had a nice catch up call was in para
which seemed like it was a good format
and would be something that we will like
proactively schedule as like a quarterly
check-in was them as well as with others
they have the usual complaints that
we're too slow to review things have
some thoughts on making them better but
ultimately there's not that much we can
do they are building a what they call a
virtual node which is essentially kind
of a re our key texture of of an ipfs
node where you would have a shared
storage and then kind of like my cursors
for each of their users on top of it I
think there were they have some thoughts
on reorganizing other parts as well but
we didn't get too deep so that is their
big projects the other thing that they
are working or that they would really
like to see is IP NS republishing which
is something that I need to catch up
with a dino in this to whether it can
happen the other major updates is grants
so we have soft launched the ipfs deaf
grants plan form so it's live now at
ipfs slash dev grants on github the
scaffolding is uh is all up I doesn't
have many grants and it's currently in
fact it has it has none so the task now
is to both internally and through our
kind of close collaborators
put in kind of a pilot set of grants in
there make sure that all the systems
make sense I and also that we set a good
precedent for others that are seeking to
use it as well we've already reached out
to a few folks we'll be doing more of
that this week a little you want to take
the browser updates yep so on the bread
on the Opera Franz
they provided new builds of the mobile
version we - has protocol handler so
they addressed our previous concerns
around like using our IP first console
start in fetching sub resources like
images and videos they addressed those
those work fine so then we started
digging deeper around origin isolation
and I've added some small tests for that
they don't - isolation because they
effectively use the infrared gateway as
is and if your is only providing the
path by gateway so everything is under a
single origin but it's like ongoing
ongoing discussion and we are growing
this testitude as we go with this
specific collaboration so when we live
then talk with brave we got a ready test
to test like compliance against our
needs and so on the bright side I think
last Friday with brian tandy from from
brave mostly around long term strategy
how to deal with Chrome Web Store
well maybe most like signaling that
problem they not like they not only use
the store for I TFS companion they also
got like other extensions which they
kinda like piggyback on the Chrome Web
Store for distribution and I feel
they're like postpone and postpone that
it's a ongoing discussion how do we
handle it how do we decouple ourselves
from Chrome Web Store for the
distribution I think that that's it I
think there are also short short sync
with metamath guys around use of our
gateways so they were asking us if they
can use the web link we suggested maybe
don't use our gateway by default but
then I realized they are already using
our gateway so just kind of suggested
that there's no change but there will be
an improved security for users if they
switch to the web link so they switch to
the web link but they will be looking
into either running about the J's like
the first node or work in question Shura
I believe like the main blocker was
ensure enough supporting subdomain
gateways and that's kind of enough
because we need to make that easier it
should work out of the box from with go
IDF s so that something will start off
in the beginning of 2020 awesome thank
you yeah we I guess we did also just
chat with in fira so if there's if
there's anything that we should
reinforce with them or encourage them to
grab some pieces we have open
communication tools and I can touch that
yeah I saw the thing about them not
having some domain gateway like right
after the call so they can follow up
well Hugo leveling up to a two-day
operation tell us the good news Hey so I
finally released a bfsd CTO new version
which brings a couple of huge
improvements and I think it's probably
the first one that Aldo released that we
do in the JSF I am maybe
so basically it was a complete rewrite
of this TL c TL was a pretty old package
some technical debt that was accumulated
there some old things were not as
necessary some missing stuff so
basically I needed to rewrite everything
to allow for writing improvements in the
tests and also to future developments
that are now are now possible that
weren't so one of the big big things was
that now we have almost we are we only
have three tests skipped in the browser
and previously we had a bunch of them
basically all of the tests that needed
two or more connected notes were skipped
in the browser and now they are all
enabled and no passing and the three
that we have skipped are related to a
very small specific issue it only
happens in Firefox so I think we we can
ignore them ignore issue and say we are
a hundred percent we run a hundred
percent of our tests in the browser
because actually those tests pass in
chrome and we already are working on a
fix for Firefox and that was a pretty
good pretty good improvement one other
thing that's going to be great for the
future that we actually just talked in a
previous call about about was while
doing all this work in CTL I found out
that we actually have a couple of issues
is kind of interrupting between
different types of nodes we already have
interrupt repo that basically does runs
a bunch of interrupt
tests between go daemon and J&J s demon
the other ripples we kind of only do one
type so HTTP client is basically running
tests in with the go daemon JSI BFS does
a little bit more but we don't we don't
do kind of the whole permutation and all
the combinations that we we have
basically all the types that city out
supports go demon and j/s demon in
process nodes J s daemon and also in the
browser and now with the the new CTL we
can predefined we can predefined the
options we want for all these types of
demons and then we can build some kind
of orchestration so the tests run I run
against like the different combinations
between types of nodes and this wasn't
possible at all previously and this is
really important because while doing
this as I said I found out a couple of
issues that if we try to run the HTTP
client tests and change the node type
from go to GS a bunch of tests just
break fail completely so we need to fix
that and also in jeaious we have a
couple of smaller issues but we we need
to fix that fix that but for that we
need to have the platform to be able to
be aware that those type of things
happen and this is another thing that in
the new CTL also improves upon besides
tiny bits of performance improvement
cleaner codebase the options are the
same at gsfs so there's no is no need
for a new developer or even us to
understand the CTL options and then
understand the gfs options
all the same and yeah that's basically
it there's a couple more highlights but
you can read the release notes and also
I think Dietrich links video commentary
from the last web browsers call I think
so we can follow up on that if you want
yeah I think it's basically it why don't
you wanna tell us about the painting I
made the release notes with pictures so
those might be more interesting that me
talking about it but basically what I
would I put in notes it's there's a
better integration with wet your eyes
for importing files typify so finally
someone add import the files to IDF s we
if I keep a companion either with that
like ad hoc upload import we also
changed the language from Apple's to
imports to remove this idea that who you
are uploading to some server somewhere
no you are importing data to your local
node and then someone made requested so
when you import to a TFS now it
automatically opens in web UI interface
so we had this interface but we never
show that to user
now it's we do that and the like small
u.s. improvement around how we provide
context actions on DNS linked websites
and the smoke on more control about
activity integrations but overall like
all those differ differ behaviors we had
other calls did not change the main
improvement is UX around imports IDs and
that's mostly for Firefox users cause if
you are chromium user or brace user you
need to wait for our extension to be
reserved because now we are at the Indus
slow slow queue and review process takes
about a week on average it will take a
week for people to actually get this
update I think hopefully all right so
I'm
stalling Firefox I get to play around
with the newest stuff I have great you
know I have brave know your eight
companion a chromium still some I'm
installing firefox to get to play with
this it's just every browser why not
that's awesome I love the pictures the
pictures are really great they they
really help visualize exactly how how to
get access to these things so thank you
for that snazzy release notes alright
any anything else from regular updates
or should we move into other topics
first thing here is collabs update are
how do you do wanna maybe cover that
collabs wrap-up for the year
yes so this is this is not really a
thing to report yet but we are meeting
tomorrow I believe to do kind of a
prototype quarterly slash annual in this
case collapse reports so this will be
kind of Li a retro slash analysis for
for the rest of the org to learn about
you know the the victories the setbacks
and what looks promising for the
upcoming quarter awesome cool and going
going back to the deference part and is
like forward-looking like is there
active threads that were or a set of
those that are going to land this week
to try and get some of that stuff filled
out before bigger launch next quarter
yeah yeah absolutely we already have a
couple conversations going
we're like porting and grant application
from any type we're putting that over
from the file coin set of things Brian
so for me simple is writing something up
as we speak I'm reaching out to like
three or four other people this today
tomorrow and then we are also trying to
source some internal things as well so I
think that the last one I probably need
the most help was just basically find VL
internal ideas for bounties or RFPs and
you know kind of working with people to
to put them together make sure that the
system makes sense to them cool yeah I
think we feel free to to ping me if you
want suggestions and who to talk to but
I think probably one-on-one chats with
people of like you know I'm gonna sit
down with you for 15 minutes then we're
gonna like walk through the ideas and
then
you know make sure that people have
contacts for how to bang it out like
that seems pretty good we have that like
brainstorm list to see I think they're
like three of those on the glide PMS I
did I suggested else who is not so I'm
happy to point yeah yeah I must I might
need a little bit of help to like put
names to some of those like I'm not
entirely sure who to talk to about some
of the items but yeah looking look at
that separately
sounds good that's exciting - cool I
think next one was me which is the word
we're doing q4 grading this week we're
gonna hold q1 okay our drafting to the
beginning of January but kind of the two
things here are to go into the
spreadsheet and everyone grade the K
ours for which you're responsible and if
it involved measuring something measure
the thing give a proposal for for what
grade seems to make sense and use the
the notes column to kind of update the
rhetoric refer for why this thing or
document the what the metric was or
whatever it is and we also want to do
kind of retrospectives looking back over
the quarter this is something that's
been kind of common practice in the past
but especially kind of we're at the end
of the year it's a touch point we want
to make sure that each each of our are
teams and groups are doing that so I'm
gonna be creating the document that you
know the same template format so each
person can kind of fill that out and the
aim is to we'll get that one done by by
this week and that'll go into informing
the okrs we set at the beginning of q1
and ends of focus areas and something I
had actually I judged people to do as
well is especially when it comes to
things that have blocked us or made us
feel like we we aren't actually able to
operate at you know utilizing all of our
capacity or you know if there's if
there's things about how we're doing
stuff from an organizational or like
team mode of operation and practice
perspective let's dig into some of those
because I think it's a you know we have
an opportunity at the beginning of next
year as where we're focusing on a on a
core goal to change some of those things
some of the ways that we're operating
and get into the modes of execution that
utilize our capacity and help us help us
push forward and feel less blocked which
hey we all want so I'll like I'll start
by creating about doc
they'll be space for everyone to to
write that and then we can use it to do
do better as a team going forward to
I'm good go Terri something question
hand after their recordings off okay
cool cool and then my last I added a
quick extra item around comms check in
because we talk about comms in this
meeting and so looking at our dock for
December stuff I know that Allen has a
draft post for async/await refactor a
blog post for that kind of talking about
what motivated it what learnt lessons
learned for doing larger factors of of
repos like this and so I think it
actually item here for me to check in
probably in the next in the core
implementations meeting about whether
that's on track and there's a draft blog
post for our collab around bit swap
improvements and it needs I think a
little bit more finalization Dirk is is
dr eyeing the the completion of that and
working with our our collab with partner
we've been kind of iterating on this
with to make sure that they fill out
some of these sections and we get the
thumbs up on on their side as well to
talk about the work we've done and I
Terry
we have Terry in here on the I confess
community tools and support I think
you've you I've seen you poking on these
things and question work to you on
either whether you're blocked
whether you feel like this makes sense
and to push forward on and whether it's
on traffic or that's what the thing is I
left a note in there that maybe you
haven't seen yet I think it makes more
sense in q1 for a variety of reasons
including that survey that I just sent
out about private school leadership will
look kind of affect the package so if we
can wait on those changes and bundle it
then it might make more sense but feel
free to Amy one off if you disagree okay
well I haven't seen your comment yet
not senior survey either so I think I
think that's okay and make sense I also
don't want to it's the end of the year
and where we're starting to stack
communications that we wanted to do this
week so don't want to overwhelm
ourselves with that either yeah that's
the other reason is I think there's it I
mean this week people will still be
looking at things but starting next week
I don't think anyone's going to be
paying attention so I think we'll also
get more notice if we give it a little
while the only thing on the community
front that hasn't already been published
as a lot of things you wanted to blend
bill are things that we're already
announced another post like the camp
materials or whatever so the latest
thing that hasn't been announced really
is the piece you put together in the
community repo that links to those
sessions okay now because I so asked Jen
to include that in a newsletter this
week announced and then include again in
a blog in q1 yeah sounds good I think
there is something to like you know and
this happens pretty frequently and other
places where like the same piece of work
might get communicated out twice to
different audiences because they hear
about it and think about it differently
but yeah okay but that's fine with me
and then forgo ipfs launch I know that
the test grant team is hacking super
hard right now they're already making
DHT bug fixes and improvements I think
they've already done three and they
don't even have the full test all the
way running yet but I don't I don't
think that before this timeline is
obviously we're not going to be doing a
launch communication today on December
16th and I think the 23rd or whatever
the date is we were kind of trying to
aim for is still very optimistic for one
would be able to communicate even in our
sea so that kind of feeds into also what
we're what we need to prioritize for
next quarter in terms of I'm getting
getting these really important
improvements out yep and then I
mentioned
communicating out to I'm kind of the
team and our community like where we're
focusing next quarter and definitely
still in the plans on the list we'll
have some of that on Thursday and but
then also you know I think they'll be a
blog post or two out of that and
hopefully one of those which lands by
ended here or at least the very very
beginning of January alrighty well we're
out of time and terry has something she
wanted to say after you go so by
recording and see you later